Welcome back to Movie Recaps.
Today I will show you an action,
sci-fi, thriller film from 2006, titled Children
of Men. Spoilers ahead! Watch out and take care.
The year is 2027. For almost two decades,
humanity has been incapable of reproducing
and it's now on the brink of extinction - this
has caused society to collapse. The United
Kingdom is one of the few remaining nations with a
functioning government, which has caused a wave of
refugees to illegally enter the nation. This has
brought the army to patrol the streets, catching
immigrants for imprisonment or even execution.
The story begins when our protagonist, Theo Faron,
enters a bakery to get some coffee and hears the
news on the tv: the youngest person in the world
passed away. After years of struggling with
his celebrity status his age had earned him,
he was attacked by a fan for not wanting to give
out his autograph. Everyone in the shop seems to
be devastated by this tragedy, but Theo doesn't
look too bothered. He leaves the bakery and only
stops a few feet away to add whiskey to his coffee
when suddenly there is an explosion from the shop.
There's lots of screaming and alarms going
off, but thankfully Theo doesn't get hurt.
With an annoying ringing in his ears and still
unbothered, Theo goes to work as if nothing had
happened. In the office, almost nobody is getting
actual work done, they're too busy crying over the
loss of the world's youngest person. Theo takes
this as an opportunity: he lies to his boss and
tells him he's upset over the news too, so he
asks permission to finish his work at home before
leaving. On his way back, the train he's taken
is constantly on the receiving end of stones from
rebels and indigents. There also are many cages
filled with refugees and guarded by the cops on
the station. This still doesn't make Theo even
blink. Outside the station, Theo meets with his
old friend Jasper Palmer. After a hug, they get
in Jasper's car and drive to his place in the
countryside while discussing the bakery explosion,
considering the idea it may've been the government
itself that planted the bomb. They see a bus
pass by, taking refugees to a camp in Bexhill.
Jasper's place is hidden in the woods, so hidden
that they need to stop the car and move some
decoy branches away to be able to pass. Jasper
makes fun of Theo for his lack of love life and
his alcohol problem, he also offers him to come
live with him, but Theo turns down the offer.
Once they're inside the house, we learn
through photos and newspaper clips that
Jasper used to be a political cartoonist
and his wife Janice was a photojournalist.
These days, however, Jasper became a hippie and
pot dealer, and Janice is in a catatonic state
since she was tortured. There are also are old
pictures of Theo with a woman and a little boy.
After saying hi to Janice, Theo and Jasper hang
out on the couch smoking and discussing various
topics. Jasper mentions his main client
is an immigration cop at the Bexhill camp,
and they argue over the possible existence
of the Human Project, a secret scientific
organization with hidden facilities where they're
trying to find a cure to humanity's infertility.
Theo is back at his home the next day and when he
leaves for work, he's kidnapped in the street by a
militant group called the Fishes. Face covered,
they put him in the van and don't uncover him
until they have him in Fishes territory. When Theo
opens his eyes again, he is in a protected room,
and he sees for the first time in years his
ex-wife Julian Taylor, who apologizes for the
theatrics but they had to do this to avoid the
police. She's been a wanted woman since their
activist days, but Theo has left that life behind.
After explaining they weren't the ones who put the
bomb in the bakery, Julian takes Theo outside
for a walk. The reason why she's made him come
is that she needs transfer papers for a refugee
girl to get to the coast, and Theo can get them
through his cousin. Theo turns down the idea
and when Julian offers monetary compensation,
he says he doesn't need her money: an obvious
lie. Since he isn't collaborating, Julian makes
her people cover his face again and take him
out of their place. While on the van, one of
the Fishes tells Theo this has never happened and
that they'll always be watching him. Another one
gives him a paper sign to hang on the tube in case
he changes his mind, then Theo is thrown in the
middle of the street with some change for the bus.
Sometime later, it seems Theo does end up changing
his mind, because he pays his cousin
Nigel -who works as a minister- a visit.
A fancy car with its own driver picks him
up and takes him to the private residence,
where the minister keeps and restore classic
works of art, like Michelangelo's David, which
is missing a chunk of its leg. After hugging,
they have lunch together with the minister's son,
who ignores them completely while playing
on a screen connected directly to his body.
After asking his cousin about his wife, Theo asks
for the transfer papers by making up a story that
they're for his girlfriend to be able to visit
her very sick brother in Brighton. Nigel points
out it's a huge favor since it's highly controlled
and, after yelling at his son to take his pills,
he asks Theo to follow him to the window,
where he tells him he'll see what he can do.
Theo wonders why Nigel keeps all this art when in
a hundred years there won't be anyone to look at
it, Nigel replies he just doesn't think about it.
Hours later, Theo is at a pub and is approached
by one of the Fishes, Luke, who saw the
sign Theo had been given posted outside.
Theo explains he did get the papers, but they're
joint, so he is the one who will have to escort
the girl, a task he'll accept if he's paid more.
Luke accepts because Julian thinks highly of Theo.
The next day, Theo is approached by one of the
Fishes again while he's betting on the dogs - a
woman that shows him the same sign he used the
day before. He follows her outside and onto a bus,
where Julian is waiting for him. She asks about
the papers before reminiscing about the old days,
but they end up arguing over the way
they handled the passing of their child,
Dylan, and eventual separation. When they reach
their stop, they hurry out of the bus and Theo
takes the chance to ask why he was chosen,
Julian says she trusts him. He also asks
what will happen to them, and Julian says she
doesn't know before pecking his lips. She says
he's only come for the money. After crossing a
bridge, they walk under it to meet with Luke,
who gives Theo his money as soon as he asks for
it. While explaining to him that he'll be taken to
the first check point in Canterbury and then he'll
be on his own with the girl, they get in the car,
where Theo is introduced to a woman named Miriam
and the young girl he'll be escorting, Kee.
They drive to Canterbury. Theo sleeps at the
beginning of the trip, but when he wakes up
later on, he and Julian reminiscence about their
old days as activists and play a little game with
a golf ball. When they're about to reach their
destination, they're ambushed by an armed gang.
Julian gets shot. They manage to drive away from
the gang, but then it's the police that arrive
and chase them instead. Luke has no other option
but to stop the car - however, when he gets out,
he shoots both cops before returning to
his place behind the wheel and getting
everyone out of there as soon as possible.
They stop to say their goodbyes to Julian.
The two women cover the body with a shawl and
pray, while Theo pretends to be unaffected until
he distances himself from them, then he allows
himself to cry. It doesn't last long though,
because Luke quickly tells them to get back in the
car so they can leave before they're caught again.
It's nightfall when they reach a Fishes safe
house, where the entire group is meeting to
vote for their new leader. Theo asks for a ride to
London, but he's told it's too dangerous and he'll
have to wait until the next day. Instead, he's
offered a shower and clean clothes. After washing
up, he chitchats with one of the Fishes before
Miriam comes looking for him to take him to Kee.
She takes him to the barn while the
Fishes vote for Luke as their new leader.
Inside the barn, Theo is left alone with Kee,
who says Julian told her stories of their child
and if things got bad, she should talk to Theo
because he's the only one she can trust to take
her to the boat called The Tomorrow. Theo doesn't
want anything to do with this, so to convince him,
Kee takes off her dress and reveals her secret:
she's pregnant. Theo is shocked, not believing
what he's seeing, but the moment is interrupted
by Luke, who takes them all back to the house.
They watch the news on the tv: Julian's body
has been found, and they're now looking for the
people that were with her in the car. The police
think they'll be able to identify them soon.
An argument starts then about what they should
do with Kee: the Fishes don't want to make her
public because the government will take her baby
away, but Theo thinks she needs proper care.
There's also the matter of the Human
Project being rather difficult to contact,
so they may lose their only chance if they don't
go to meet that boat. Kee decides to stay and have
her baby in the safe house, but she still wants to
be taken to The Tomorrow after her baby is born.
Later that night, Theo can't sleep, so he is awake
to hear the noises of people arriving outside. He
sneaks around to secretly learn what's going on:
it's the people that attacked them earlier. The
ambush had been Luke's plan so he could become the
leader and take control of the baby to use it as a
political tool in their revolution. Theo won't
allow this, so he rushes to Kee's and Miriam's
bedroom to tell them what's going on and help them
escape. They sneak outside and while hiding from
the guards, they carefully approach each car -
they disable two of them and enter the third one,
which won't start. Theo gets off and starts
pushing it, gaining the attention of the Fishes.
Theo gets back in the car, which still doesn't
start but at least is moving thanks to the fact
they're going downhill. The men are going after
them but aren't allowed to shoot because the girl
is in the car, so they try to grab them through
the window, but Theo and Miriam push them away.
The car stops once more mid-hill, Theo gets
out to push it again. It gets it moving, but
it also gives the chance for one of the Fishes to
catch up with them and point his weapon and Theo,
who pushes him off by hitting him with the door.
At the base of the hill, the car gets stuck in
mud, so Theo gets out to push while Miriam
jump starts it. It takes her a few tries but
the car does end up working, so well in fact
Theo has to run after it to get back inside.
Miriam stops it for him and with Theo back
with the women, they manage to escape the farm.
Theo tells Miriam he knows of a place where
they can hide and takes them to Jasper's house,
who receives them with open arms. While having
diner, they discuss their options: the Human
Project's boat will have two stops, and neither of
them looks good. Windsmore is too far away to make
it there in time, and the Bexhill is the refugee
camp. Jasper thinks that's the solution, and tells
them to eat while he gets some things ready.
The next morning, Miriam is outside practicing
something similar to yoga and Kee is braiding
Janice's hair. Theo approaches her and asks
her about the pregnancy: she's eight months
pregnant and she doesn't know who the father is.
At that moment, Jasper returns with a plan: the
group can go to the Bexhill camp and meet with
Jasper's cop buyer, who will smuggle them inside
so they can get to their boat. Kee accepts this
plan. Night falls. While Theo is having a drink,
he hears the others sharing a smoke and chatting.
Jasper tells the women the story of how Theor
and Julian met: as protestors in the middle of a
rally by chance, and their relationship took a bad
turn when they lost their kid to the flu pandemic.
Not being able to hear more of it, Theo
leaves them to their chat and goes to bed.
The next morning, everyone's woken up by
the alarm: the Fishes have found them.
Jasper gives Theo the instructions of how to
contact Syd then sends him to the car with
the women, refusing to go with them. He wants to
stay, saying he's gotten out of worse situations.
Theo drives the girls away but stops the
car at a hill to look at what's going on
in the house from afar: the Fishes arrive and
not liking Jasper's answers, they shoot him.
Theo doesn't tell Kee this, he says everything
is ok before driving away for good this time.
They make it to their meeting point the next day:
an abandoned school. While Kee enjoys the swings,
Miriam tells Theo about her old job as a midwife
and how she saw the infertility issue affect all
her patients little by little. A truck arrives
then: it's Syd, their contact. After exchanging
the password, Syd gets them in the truck
and drives them away to the refugee camp.
Kee has her first contraction on the way,
they tell Syd is just her being carsick.
They make it to Bexhill, and Syd tells them to
put on sad refugee faces before moving them from
the truck and into a bus filled with refugees
that quickly leaves the area. Soon enough, Kee's
contractions start getting worse and by the time
they make it to the actual camp, her water breaks.
A guard notices her estate of distress, so
Miriam distracts him by acting as if going
through religious mania, so she's taken away
to be executed. He's also about to take Kee,
so Theo points at the water on the floor between
her legs and says it's urine and excrement,
effectively driving him away.
Theo and Kee leave the bus and
join a line where Theo loses Kee for a short
moment when a guard tells him to lose his clock,
but they reunite soon after. The line that is
eventually released into the city that became
the refugee camp, and there they look for
Marichka, a Romanian woman that takes them
to a safe abandoned building and gives them
a private room where Kee can have her baby.
Labour is hard on Kee, but Theo guides her, and
eventually she gives birth to a healthy baby girl.
The next day, Syd comes by to check on
them. The city's become a dangerous mess
after a wall blew up and people started to
flee, so Syd's come to help them escape.
When he sees the baby, he promises he'll take
them to a boat, but Marichka is against this idea,
implying he isn't a good man. Syd takes out his
gun then and reveals he knows there's a bounty
on their heads that he plans to earn. On their
way downstairs, Marichka manages to push Syd off
and Theo jumps on him to get him away from Kee.
After Marichka hits him with a stick, the three
of them start running away, with Syd breathing
on their backs. They go down a hallway to reach
a street and when Syd gets stuck on the door,
Theo finishes him off with a brick to the head.
Theo asks Marichka about the boat, and after
some confusion on her part, she catches on
and starts guiding them to it amidst all the
fighting between the military and the Fishes.
She makes them enter a building and after
showing the baby to the owner through a window,
they're allowed to enter a very nice apartment.
There they eat, rest and get better shoes for
Theo while two elderly women play with the baby.
One of the guards tells them they need to leave in
an hour, so when that time passes, they put
Kee on a wheelchair and leave the building.
They're running again, and soon they're found by
Luke and the Fishes. Luke takes Kee and the baby
with him and leaves the other Fishes to shoot
Theo and Marichka. They're about to do so when
more military arrives, giving Theo and Marichka
a chance to run from them and try to find Kee.
Theo gets separated from Marichka but he
keeps going, avoiding soldiers and Fishes
until he makes it inside a building under
heavy fire. After climbing various stairs,
he finally finds Kee and her baby near Luke, who
is trying to convince them of his good cause when
a bomb goes off in the building, ending his life.
Theo grabs Kee and the baby and escorts them out,
not having trouble leaving the building
because everyone is awed by the baby.
The refugees touch them as if they were a
vision, and when they are stopped by the Fishes,
they also let them pass. While leaving the
building, the soldiers who enter noticed the baby
and start yelling to stop the firing so they can
let them pass. As they walk away everyone outside
stare at them in shock, but the fire resumes
when the trio is far enough from the building.
They quickly get back to the building entrance
where they had been captured and reunite with
Marichka, who finally takes them to an underground
passage where their boat is waiting for them.
After refusing to join them, Marichka
pushes the boat and sends them to the sea.
Theo rows until they make it to the bouy that will
serve as their rendezvous point. While waiting,
Kee notices blood on the boat and Theo tells
him it's his, he's been shot, but he's fine.
When the baby starts crying, Theo teaches her to
burp her, and Kee decides then that she will call
her daughter Dylan, after Theo's child. It is
then that Theo loses consciousness and perhaps
even passes away exactly as The Tomorrow
arrives to take Kee and Dylan to safety.